hey what's happening everybody I'm
Brendon huffard if you're new around
here I've started and sold a few online
businesses I'm the founder of SEO for
the rest of us and I lead the SEO team
at Directive where we do search
marketing for some of your favorite
brands like Allstate Samsung betterment
and a bunch of others and what we're
going to talk about today is something
we actually talked a lot about at
Directive but also something I hear a
lot of software and other kind of
smaller bootstrap founders talk about
day to day and that is if I have a
limited amount of time and no team or a
small team do i prioritize SEO or PPC so
what I want to share with you is a short
clip of my buddy bill king who runs both
SEO and PPC over at Drift one of my
favorite software companies and he's
gonna walk us through a little bit of a
framework of how he decides what to
pursue first and what to prioritize
let's check that out where should where
do you focus like a lot more of your
effort right now with where you're at at
drift so hyper specific and then like
how do you think do you think that that
applies to other people and what would
you kind of recommend for other people
that's true that's it's funny cuz I I
think I've gotten more questions about
how I manage my time being responsible
for all paid and SEO at the same time I
think it's a really interesting thing
and I think I think it is a relatively
unique position to have both of those in
your in your day to day but I think like
it's certainly there's a lot to be done
there's no question about that but I
think the only way that I've been
successful at managing that and the
keeping myself focused on the right
things is really being super rudimentary
about my backlog my scoring in my
prioritization I treat my flow just like
kind of you would if you were developing
a product right there's a lot of things
we want to do there's a lot of things
that come up here because we're moving
really really quickly so it's easy to
get distracted in the only way that I
can stay on the things that are the
highest impact is if I'm really really
focused on taking my time to make sure
that I understand what is the biggest
impact because there will be an
unlimited amount of distractions and an
unlimited amount of opportunities
especially me work in a place that's
fast-paced
and people are fired up to try things
I'm not saying I don't try those because
there are things that come up and we
have to you know we have to be nimble
and adjust to that but putting a lot of
time into the into those those areas of
you by work especially when I first
started is super importantly and at to
add to that you need to have a team
that's willing to trust that you are
able to make those decisions and still
continue that to get your goals and work
together with the team and all those
important things so I would say like one
mistake I made in the past that I
learned from is when you get to a place
that's moving quickly just jump in and
try to like you want to jump in right
away and like quickly get as much done
as possible but I think like taking a
step back and thinking about processes
and systems actually ends up scaling
quicker than it does for you jumping out
of the gate and trying to like solve the
lowest hanging fruit if that makes sense
yeah absolutely there's some time
reading a book right now called the
first 90 days it was really helpful for
me just kind of figuring out like when
you join somewhere when you do something
not trying to like have a net positive
impact right you're gonna probably the
net negative impact for a certain amount
of time some leaders expect that to be
six months I'm expected to be three or
whatever but taking time to learn think
through systems but also understand like
how to get things done in an
organization give you a like usually you
fill out a 30 60 90 day plan at a place
we do one three and seven year so your
first day you do you go on the company
wiki and you post your first day shift
it's very very fast-paced here so I
think that even adds more of a degree of
importance to those types of things
because the engines running people are
running around you and a lot of stuff
and if you don't put those things in
place you're gonna get caught up so
there you have it whether you're
deciding you know what's best for you
whether it's SEO or PPC bill lays out
some really helpful frameworks and
thoughts first focus on what is gonna
have the biggest impact and make sure
that that's measurable and you're
accountable to that if you watched my
last video with Bill which I'll link
above but also down in the description
below he also talks are just having a
culture of experimentation with your
team or wherever
you work right making sure that there's
great people there that can support you
and really just slow down like don't
jump into it without thinking it through
first and what I would love it if you
just let me know let me know in the
comments below what's working for you
right now is SEO working for you right
now is PPC working for you right now is
neither are you struggling to figure
that out is that why you're searching
for this on YouTube because you're
trying to figure that out let me know in
the comments below I'd love to help also
while you're kind of going down there in
the comments check out the description I
have a playlist with all of my other
pieces of the interview with Bill King
adrift there's other playlists with that
kind of walk through the the comparison
between SEO and SEM and PPC something
we've talked about a bit on this channel
in the past and then most importantly if
you are passionate about SEO the way
that I am if your past and passionate
about passing it if you're passionate
about pursuing organic search the way
that I am make sure you just check out
SEO for the rest of us it's my community
our community it's a free community you
can check it out Brendon Hufford dot-com
slash newsletter again links in the
description oh we're really just sharing
all the things that people don't talk
about on the blogs so make sure to check
that out and then the last thing just
want to thank pod reach or you go check
out Jackie and her team at pod reach or
calm they're the ones that helped me
turn all of these videos if you're a
video producer podcast producer or
create any sort of content like that and
you want to leverage that for SEO for
organic search Jackie and her team of
pottery tree comm or the team to help
you do that so again don't forget to go
in the comments below let me know what's
working for you SEO PPC what are you
having success with what are you not
having success with I've been Brendon
Huffer don't forget to work hard be nice
people and don't get too lost trying to
create something that matters
[Music]